#summary Documentation on how to enable and configure killing/death sprees, and multi-kills. Note: Working document, check back often!

= Overview =

Killing Sprees, Death Sprees, and Multikills are completely configured server-side, and fully customizable.  They are designed to empower server owners/operators in customizing their server and give it a unique feel that encourages regular play.

All three features can be configured independently of one another.    

NOTE: While these features can also be enabled in Single-Player mode, they were designed for multi-player customization and thus are not enabled by default!! 
----
= Killing/Death Sprees =

Killing Sprees and Death Sprees are a number of consecutive kills or deaths that a player accumulates without dying (for a killing spree) or without killing someone else (for a death spree).  Upon reaching that number of consecutive kills or deaths, a message, chat or center printed, is shown globally, and a corresponding "announcer" sound is played (also globally). When this happens, the are considered "on a spree." 

Experiencing an opposite a spree event while on a spree (a death if the player is on a killing spree, or a kill if the player is on a death spree) puts the player's appropriate spree counter back to 0. 

*Note:* Team kills do not count towards a killing spree, and suicides only count against a killing spree. 

=== Enabling ===

3:15 in the morning, more to come tomorrow. 

=== Configuring ===

3:15 in the morning, more to come tomorrow. 
----
= Multikills =

Note: Multikills are currently a work in progress.  The cvar exists to enable/disable them, but it will have absolutely no effect. Adding any [mkill] sections to your settings file will also have no effect, except to generate a bunch of "unrecognized token" messages on game/map loading. 

=== Enabling ===
Multikill functionality is enabled via the cvar, "g_altExcellent."  Setting this to "1" will have the "Excellent" sound replaced by sounds specified in your settings file.  

=== Configuring ===

3:15 in the morning, more to come tomorrow. 
----
= Structure of Settings File =